---
layout: post
title: Hello, world
---

h1. Hello, world, that's Artur Brugeman!

p(meta). 27 Jun 2014


Yeah, that's me. I've recently come to a state when my thoughts and ideas should
finally reach the paper (or your screens). For more than ten years I have been
working as a software engineer, and yet there has been no sign of me on the 
web. I'm planning to change that here, and if you are hurry about getting
some new code to try, "here":https://github.com/brugeman/japy it is.

And while the impatient ones are gone, let me try to outline one
of the things that excites me the most in modern software world. It is 
the Big Data, and it is not it's buzzword-ness that is appealing.

Big Data is cool because it makes conseptually trivial tasks very hard to
implement right. Suppose we need to join two data sets. If SQL is the first
thing that comes to mind when you hear 'join', you could just write something 
like:

	select * from a join b on a.id = b.id;

This is a trivial problem indeed, until you are told that both tables 
contain two billion rows. Now, if you are curious enough, go and 
stress-test your favourite RDBMS by feeding it with that much data
and calling that query. Most experts will not even consider such dataset a 
'big data'. And yet, it is enough to cause trouble if we blindly apply some 
obvious solutions or technologies. I have seen this task taking weeks,
with programs written and several databases involved, while it can easily be
done in half a day with Linux command line on any commodity machine. 

And that is why big data is so wonderful. It is literally full of wonders. 
It forces you to think deeply into the problem, and apply the most effective,
most hardware friendly, and simple solution. And that solution is usually 
not even close to what comes to mind first after you hear the problem 
statement. Which, to me, is the 'software engineering'.

That's enough for the starters. Follow me on 
"twitter":https://twitter.com/ArturBrugeman, and don't forget 
to check out the "japy":https://github.com/brugeman/japy, 
which I'll write about soon.
